Enable Apache CGI:Apache, CGI
===============

I want to use CGI for my web server.
However, some trouble suffered me.
Let's share!

Environment
---

- ArchLinux
- Apache
- Bash


httpd.conf
---------------

My apache configuration file is here.

```
/etc/httpd/conf/httpd.conf
```

http://localhost
------------------

If you access from web browser, you will reach here defined by `DocumentRoot`.

```
DocumentRoot "/srv/http"
```

Enable CGI
---------------

I want to share my suffering.

As a default, Apache does not permit CGI for safety.
Thus I want to enable CGI.

I read a official Apache Tutorial: Dynamic contents with CGI.

First, load cgi_module.

```
LoadModule cgi_module modules/mod_cgi.so
```

THIS IS A TRAP.

In the default configuration file.

```
<IfModule !mpm_prefork_module>
	# LoadModule cgid_module modules/mod_cgid.so
</IfModule>
<IfModule mpm_prefork_module>
	# LoadModule cgi_module modules/mod_cgi.so
</IfModule>
```

OKOK, enable bottom one.
I did not realize here. `mpm_prefork_module` did not enabled by default.

In the configuration file.
`mpm_prefork_module` is commented out.

```
#LoadModule mpm_prefork_module modules/mod_mpm_prefork.so
```

I searched about what is mpm_prefork_module.

It seems how to treat multiple access.
If you create a process per access, it means that fork is called. It is very heavy.
Thus, I felt that `mpm_prefork_module` is not enabled by default.

If you want to use a thread per access instead of proces, you should not enable `mpm_prefork_module`.
Therefore, in order to use CGI, you should comment out like below instead of Tutorial's suggestion.

```
<IfModule !mpm_prefork_module>
	LoadModule cgid_module modules/mod_cgid.so
</IfModule>
<IfModule mpm_prefork_module>
	# LoadModule cgi_module modules/mod_cgi.so
</IfModule>
```

Finally
-------------

Why Tutorial do not write about this?
I believe Tutorial, but it is my mistake.
I should have a question "Why this LoadModule is surrounded by IfModule?"

