Weak point of Crit-bit trees and how to improve
=============================

Introduction
------------

A trie is a data structure for strings and can distinguish any two strings except for a same string.
The trie is used to implement an associative array.

I use word bytes as 8bit and use 4bit to express one word for simplicity.
For example, 'a' is expressed as 0100 and '\0' is 0000 or all 0 byte.



Crit-bit tree
------------

### Definition

According to [[1](https://cr.yp.to/critbit.html)], a crit-bit tree distinguish strings by a critical bit(crit-bit).

The crit-bit tree treats a string as a binary data.
And a crit-bit is a first different bit of two binary data.
For example, there are two binary data A=0100 and B=0110, crit-bit is 0 in a and 1 in b at third position from head.

1. Define crit-bit position as a first different position of two binary data from head.
2. Define crit-bit as a bit at crit-bit position of a binary data.

For example, 
crit-bit of crib-bit position 0 of A is 0,
crit-bit of crib-bit position 1 of A is 1,
crit-bit of crib-bit position 2 of A is 0,
crit-bit of crib-bit position 3 of A is 0.

3. Define crit-bit node as a recursive data structure that has crit-bit position, left child and right child.

If crit-bit is 0, that means trace right node of crit-bit node.
If crit-bit is 1, that means trace left node of crit-bit node.

```
struct crit_bit_node{
	size_t crit_bit_position;
	struct crit_bit_node* right;
	struct crit_bit_node* left;
};
```


4. Define crit-bit as 0 when crit-bit position is longer than a string length.

For example, if you registered "abc" and "abd" to a ctib-bit trie and then want to register "a",
crit-bit position is over the length of "a".
In this case, I think "a" has a continuous '0' after the end of string like "a\0\0\0\0..." but keep a string length as 1.

It is OK to use other padding methods, like all 1 or 0110 if you like.


### Weak point

If you use crit-bit trees only on ASCII string, there is no problem because '\0' will not appear in the string except for end of string.
However, if you want to treat every pattern of byte string as string, a problem occurs.

The problem is caused by definition 4 above.
There is no way to distinguish strings that have several same non zero bytes at the head and have non equal length of zero bytes.

For example, A = "a\0" = 0100 0000 , B = "a\0\0" = 0100 0000 0000.(\0 means 0000 in this paper.)
There is no crib-bit position, because a and b has same bit pattern according to definition 4.
A is regarded as "a\0\0", and b is also regarded as "a\0\0" when calculating crit-bit.
The only difference point is true length. A is 2 and B is 3.
However, there is no information about length in crit-bit node definition.

How to improve
------------

The most simple way is add a linked list to a crit-bit node and use a linear search.
If there is no crit-bit on one crit_bit_node, compare all strings registerd to a linked list in crit-bit node.
But it is not beautiful.

I introduce a new way to add length information as a byte at the end of string.
For example, if you want to register A == "a\0" == 0100 0000, add length of string 2 at the end of string.
0100 0000 to 0100 0000 0010.
B == "a\0\0" == 0100 0000 0000 is length of 3 then 0100 0000 0000 0011 is used.
That's all.

You can use any number of bytes to express length.
For example, if you will not register longer than 255 string, only one bytes are required.
If you want to register less than 65535 bytes string, use two bytes to express length.

Why it works
---------

You think that some conflicts that crit-bit is not defined will occurs.
I will prove that conflict do not occur.

First, the conflict occurs only when tried to calculate crit-bit between two strings that only difference is the end of string.
One string has no zero padded after string.
One string has some zero padded after string.

In other cases there exists a non zero string between two strings. Thus crit-bit can be defined.

Think that every string is added length information as bytes to the end of string.

1. Define A as a string that end is not 0 and B as a zero padded string of A.

This means that B = A"\0...". For simplicity I use B = A"\0"  single byte 0 padded string.
The problem is that such B exists or not.

If A is end with '\0', crit-bit is not different whether I remove '\0' or not.

### The case length is expressed as Big Endianness

When B end with "\0", length should be longer than 256 because there is no need to think about case of string length 0.

From definition B has non zero byte before end '\0' because A is not end with '\0'.
This means that the length of B should be longer than A at least 256.

However, B is longer than 1 byte. Thus such B does not exists.

### The case length is expressed as Little Endianness

When B end with "\0" and A end with non zero byte.
This means that A is longer than B.
Because length byte must be equal to A and B and last byte is largest digit. B is zero byte and A is non-zero byte.
This will not occur because B is 1 byte longer than A from definition.

This means that such B does not exists.


Conclusion
------------

From above, by adding length bytes to the end of string, crit-bit trees can distinguish any kinds of byte strings of any length.


References
-----------

- [1] https://cr.yp.to/critbit.html 
